

When thinking about community in theoretical terms, it is easy to get caught up in perfect versions of what it means. But Communities are made up of people, and relationships between people are often messy and complex. If we look at the concept of community academically, we can afford the luxury of being rational, whereas with the reality of community in practice, once emotion is introduced, we also get much entropy along with it.

Braxler and Winet quote Miranda Joseph as she writes that in terms of community, “ the term at best as “nearly meaningless” in its overuse and at worst as a tool of manipulative persuasion in its empty signification of “a sense of belonging, understanding, caring, cooperation, equality.” I am inclined to agree with Joseph, in that community does not necessarily denote a common purpose anymore. Instead it seems to be more about people with, at least, a passing interest in a given topic. However, one’s interactions within the community are not always necessarily in the best interests of furthering the knowledge in the community, often ending up with people looking to serve their own interests.

Communities could be said to be entered around interests and values, especially in a digital context. Issues often arise when values and intentionality begin to diverge. This is compounded when the anonymity of the digital realm makes online communities even more apt to discord, given that there are no strength of ties amongst its members from the proximity of presence.

It does seem that in more specialized communities such as academia, concepts like collaboration are more easily implemented because the membership is more invested in the success of the community, given its enabling function to the individuals accessing it, as demonstrated in the Grinnell Beowulf example.

Perhaps the biggest takeaway from Community is the fact that as contributors and consumers of its content, we must be aware of a certain level of responsibility for our actions within them, even if in the digital context, we may never have to actually come face to face with other members of these communities.
